[MUSIC]
So today, we will use Python on
your raspberry pi to make a server.
So, we'll make a socket
program that'll be a server.
It'll listen for incoming messages.
Now, it'll be a very simple server, it'll
just print out those incoming message.
But we're just going to do that at
the command, interactively we'll do it.
So, first thing we need to do,
actually if you saw the video before
on the client side,
we're going to do the same thing.
We're going to start out by connecting
remotely to my raspberry pi.
So, I'm on a Windows machine right now,
I have PuTTY installed which
is my client for Secure Shell.
So, I'll start Secure Shell.
Now, I'm going to put in for
the host name right here,
I'm going to put in the IP address.
But before I do that, I want to change
the appearance just for looks sake and
increase the font size.
So, I'll change the font size to 20 and
make it nice and big.
Okay, so when I make the window,
it will be nice and big.
So now, let's see,
let's go to the secure shell, all right.
So, yeah, here it is.
Hostname, okay, so
let's put in the IP address For
my raspberry pi,
which I have found out already.
Yeah, there we go.
Bam.
Login at pi, and put in my password.
If I typed that right, yes, perfect.
Okay, so I've got one window,
let's shrink it up a little bit.
But the font is nice and big.
Okay, now, let's get another window
because we want to have a sending and
a receiving window.
So, let's open another one.
Same IP.
Oh, actually,
let's again change the appearance.
Change the font size to 20.
I wish I could make that permanent but
I don't know how.
Type in the same address.
Okay, there we go.
All right, and
we'll shrink this window up, too.
There we go.
Okay, so we're going to have
a server that's just listening,
waiting for connections.
We'll write that in Python.
And then, we'll make a client,
we'll use Netcat.
The Netcat program to make
the client to send to message, and
see if the server receives it.
So, let's take the top window,
and make the server in there.
So, start Python.
I found the rate.
Bam.
All right,
start by importing socket library.
Okay, now.
First thing I'm going to want
to do is create a socket, so
I'll say ms=socket.socket
First document is family,
so address family internet.
And next argument tells us that,
it's a TCP connection that we want.
There we go.
That should work, okay, so
now I have a socket called MS.
Now we need to,
we're going to need to bind the socket.
Now, bind actually takes one argument,
it's changed in the new version.
It takes one argument which is an address.
An address meaning an IP address and
a port.
Now, remember that since we're acting as
a server, we don't know the IP address, so
we want to pass that as a none, a blank,
for the IP address but
we want it to be listening on Port 1234.
So, we need to make one of
these address tuples, and for
that we use get_address_info.
So, will make address info,
make an object called address info that
equals socket.getaddressinfo.
So, it takes two arguments,
the IP address and the port.
Now, for the IP address,
we're going to pass none,
because we're listening for any IP
address that's connecting on this port.
And for
the port we're going to pass 1-2-3,
1-2-3-4 rather,
arbitrary unused port, bam.
Okay, so if we print out address info,
just to see what it looks like, it's
a set of tuples, notice that these tuples,
they all have, there are five tuples.
Look at the first one, 2, 1, 6, empty, and
then the fifth element in there is a pair.
The pair that we want.
The IP address, that's just a loop back,
and 1234 is the port number.
So, that's what we want to use,
what we want to listen to,
what we want to bind to in this case.
So, just to verify that, print A info 04.
And the reason why I'm saying 04 is
because 0 means the first five tuple, and
then 4 means the fifth
element in that five tuple.
Remember, we always count from zero.
The fifth element in that five tuple,
it should be the address, the IP and
the port number.
So, bam ,there it is, okay.
So, now we can bind, so we say ms.bind,
and we'll pass to it the address.
Okay, so now, it's bound.
Now, we can listen.
So, ms.listen and
we'll pass it five for now.
It doesn't matter because we're
the only ones actually trying it.
But we're only going to have
one client talking to it.
Okay, so now, it's listening.
So now, we've got to set it to
accept an incoming message.
So, we'll say con ABR=ms.accept,
now what will happen is when I hit enter,
this will block, there, it's blocking.
It's waiting to accept a message.
But it needs for a message to show
up before it can accept anything.
So, it's blocking, waiting until somebody
sends in a message on that port 1234,
sends us some data,
then it will accept that.
And it'll return the data,
the address that it came from and
it'll turn in the AADR variable and
the data will be in this con variable.
We can, we'll look at it in
a second when we send it.
>> Okay, so now,
let's go to the bottom window, okay?
Now, the bottom window is what we're going
to use for our client to send some data.
And we won't use Python for this,
we'll just use Netcat, so nc.
It's a very simple tool.
What we can do is since we're just
sending data you just give the IP address
and the port.
So, the IP address we're going to
use a loop back address because
we're just sending from
the raspberry pi to itself.
So, the loop back address
is this 127.00.1 and
the port number 1234.
So, NetCat is sending,
it's connected on that port number 1234.
Now, notice in the top window,
that MS except has just returned, right?
It completed, and now we have
a Python prompt in the top again.
The reason for that is because
it had accepted the connection.
So, the NC tried to make a connection,
and up here, it accepted the connection.
Now, no data has been sent
on that connection yet, but
we're going to do that right now.
So, let's go to the bottom window and
send a little data.
Let's say, hello world.
Okay, hit Enter.
Now, that data should have been sent.
So now, let's go to the top window, and
let's receive that data from the buffer.
So, the way we do that is we say,
data equals conn.receive.
And we give it a size.
Let's say 1000.
That's more than enough.
1000 is the maximum amount
that it will take in.
But that's more than what was sent,
so we'll do that.
So now, we've got data.
So now, we want to look at data.
So, let's say, print data.
And there it is.
Now, see where the string is hello world.
Now, notice,
how it represents it on the screen.
First it has a B in front of it,
B and then quotes, hello world.
The B represents byte array, right?
It's not a string, it's a byte array.
But that's okay.
So B, hello world, and then notice at
the end of the hello world, it has a /n.
That /n is a carriage return, simple.
Because remember when I typed hello world
into Netcat, I hit Enter afterwards.
So, the /n comes across as a character,
so it successfully reviewed the data, and
I can send more data if I want,
but what I'll do
now is now that I've successfully done
this, I'll just break the connection.
So, actually I'll do it in the top
window I'll say look I'm done, so
I want to close my connection, so I'll say
conn, conn's my connection so I close it.
Bam.
And you notice that the bottom is,
has quit too because
the connection's now closed.
And I should close the socket,
so ms.close.
It's all cleaned up.
So, that's everything.
Thanks a lot.
[MUSIC]